[Music]
[Applause]
hey bro so are you using these power
stairs yeah I got four sets for says
alright can I work in with you
seriously I'm so sick of this gym that
one set of power stairs there's always a
line to use it I mean come on
[Music]
and this video I want to talk about
strength standards there are three
scenarios in which I think strength
standards can be meaningful first one is
strength sports if you compete in
powerlifting weightlifting Highland
Games or even in CrossFit there are
qualifying totals that you might pay
attention to if you want to do well in
these sports you'll need to meet
national or world qualifying totals
elite totals qualifying times for
CrossFit Watts I'm not really sure how
that works but I know there are
benchmarks standards that you can strive
to meet the next scenario in which
legitimate strength standards are set
the military this is a way to control
the masses the same way that you're
required to uphold a certain appearance
with hair cut and uniformed you must
meet or exceed minimum physical
standards military strength standards
are also a screening tool for example in
the Marine Corps if you can't do a
certain number of pull-ups if you're
overweight if you can't run three miles
in a certain time period we can't
confidently say that you have what it
takes to pass basic training this
extends to occupation strength standards
for example a utility worker like a
lineman who climbs up telephone poles as
an employer I probably wouldn't hire
someone who is 200 pounds overweight who
can't do a pull-up because that's a huge
liability I'm not even sure if there are
strength standards and civilian
occupations but there should be
[Music]
the final scenario where strength
standards matter is maybe in medical
practice I think that all doctors should
be able to deadlift 405 pounds I'm just
kidding
take this with a grain of salt I know I
should stay in my lane but here we go at
the barbell medicine seminars Austin
Brock he talks about a brief informal
screening tool that he uses with some
patients and I think it's pretty cool
so if a patient looks like it might be
sarcopenia or maybe they're on the verge
of completely losing their physical
independence Austin will have them
perform a few sit to stands which is
just asking them to get up out of their
chair and sit back down for a few
repetitions if they can not do a given
number of reps in a time period or they
can't get up out of their chair without
using their arms or maybe they're even
too weak to get up out of their chair
without someone else's assistance Austin
can pretty confidently say that they
almost completely lack mobility and
physical independence and when I say
mobility I don't mean lacrosse ball a
foam roller I actually mean your ability
to be mobile your ability to move so if
Austin was to suggest that anyone over
the age of 60 years old really any age
should be able to do five to six sit to
stands in 30 seconds or less I'm making
these numbers up I think that that is a
meaningful strength standard that could
be used for physical therapists personal
trainers and physicians
[Music]
now let's move on to what I call
internet strength standards classify a
novice intermediate and advanced lifters
based off of strength standards is drawn
don't meet useless made-up befuddling
novice lifters squat less than 200
pounds intermediate lifters squat 2 to
400 pounds advanced lifters squat over
400 pounds I've worked with people who
can't squat the empty barbell on day one
and I've worked with people who rep 315
pounds on day one just because someone
is never trained with a barbell doesn't
mean they're completely untrained
further classifying you as a novice
intermediate and advanced lifter even
without strength standards is just
unhelpful I would rather program based
on your physical activity experience
than your barbell numbers or your
experience with barbell training case in
points let's say a professional rugby
player comes to me for strength training
and he's never touched a barbell before
never even touched weights and at the
same time a 35 year old guy who has
never done anything physically active in
his entire life
comes to me for barbell training
prescribing the same program is dumb
they will both respond differently to
that same program
I'm 32 years old I'm 5 foot 8 inches
tall
I weigh 165 pounds how much weight
should I be lifting what's a realistic
goal for me I'll usually respond you
should be squatting a thousand pounds
because my answer doesn't really even
matter it's impossible for me to predict
what you're capable of and does it
really even matter what I think you can
do here's michael say at us apo raw
Nationals squatting 280 7.5 kilos that's
633 pounds at 74 kilos body weight
that's 163 pounds I'm assuming there are
165 pound individuals out there who
struggle to squat the empty barbell so
my point is that there is this huge
variability and strength potential I had
a football coach you would say shoot for
the moon because even if you fall short
you'll still land in a star I know that
he didn't make that up but he would say
it a lot
so shoot for a 500-pound bench press
because even if he falls short having a
450 pound bench is still pretty cool and
let's say that I did tell you that you
should be benching 300 pounds when you
do get 300 pounds then what are you
gonna maintain that 300 pound bench for
the rest of your life you're probably
gonna want to do 305 310 315 300 for 2
reps if you're the type of person who
strives to reach a goal I promise that
once you reach it you're gonna set
another goal DIY deadlift Jackie
[Music]
your squats should be X percent of your
deadlift your overhead press should be X
percent of your bench my deadlifts the
same as my squat what's wrong with me
let's use a deadlift for example because
I find most people concerned with their
deadlift to squat ratio most often yes
most people deadlift more than they
squat some a lot more but it doesn't
mean there's something wrong with you
just because your deadlift is the same
or even less than your squat
here's Ray Williams 1080 pound squat 878
pound deadlift Andre Milano Chet 1069
pound squat 893 pound deadlift I
wouldn't classify them as dysfunctional
or disproportionate and I wouldn't ask
them why their deadlift sucks there are
a few reasons why your deadlifts might
be the same or less than your squat you
could be a short stocky individual with
a big front porch and stubby little arms
the squat might just come easier for you
than a deadlift your training history a
lot of times athletes have been
squatting for a long time and they've
never really dead lifted so their
deadlift is just less trained than their
squat this was me personally your mental
approach could impact your numbers as
well you might love squatting hate
deadlift II always hyped for a heavy
squat always flat when it's time to pull
a heavy single on dead but as far as
overhead press percentage of your bench
this one's pretty popular it doesn't
matter you're gonna get good at what you
practice and even if I did say that your
press percentage of your bench is too
low what are you gonna do about it
train your press and not train your
bench just to have those numbers be
closer
lastly strength standards based off of
body weight is also made up I'll admit
that it's cooled out of these goals
overhead pressing my body weight front
squatting two times my body weight dead
lifting three times my body weight these
are all goals that have meaning to me
but they're completely arbitrary outside
of powerlifting where you're scored off
of wilkes body weight to strength ratio
is just an Internet strength standard so
for those of you worried about strength
standards and strength ratios I'm gonna
quote the great Austin Baraka have you
tried just caring less
thanks for tuning in my strongman
competition is December 7th here on same
strength not hosting it
but I'm competing it's booked so you
can't sign up but it's open to
spectators so it's going to come watch
the Battle of the two 20s come check it
out thanks for tuning in
I'll see in the next training blog
always remember I love you guys will say
man I wish I could train an untamed
strength because you guys play good
music my gym just plays pop and rap crap
trust me we play a lot of that too this
isn't just my gym this is also the
members gym and if they want to listen
to something other than metal they can
so if you ever get a chance to come out
and train an untamed strength and you
walk through those doors in here give
out at work [ __ ]
don't be surprised